Terrain Overview
  Terrain, which covers all of cyberspace, includes the logical and physical components. 
  When defining terrain DCO team members should use KT-C, Mission Relevant Terrain in Cyberspace (MRT-C), Task Critical Asset (TCA), and Defense Critical Asset (DCA) as outlined in United States Cyber Command (USCC) Operational Guidance on Identification of Mission Relevant Terrain in Cyberspace. 

  KT-C: Any locality or area — physical or logical — where seizure, retention, or other specified degrees of control provide a marked advantage in cyberspace to any combatant.

  MRT-C: Described as — but not limited to — all devices, internal/external links, Operating Systems (OS), services, applications, ports, protocols, hardware, and software on servers required to enable the function of a critical asset. 

  TCA: An asset that is of such extraordinary importance that its incapacitation or destruction would have a serious, debilitating effect on the ability of one or more Department of Defense (DoD) or Office of the Secretary of Defense (OSD) components to execute the capability or mission-essential task it supports. TCAs are used to identify DCAs.  

  DCA: An asset of such extraordinary importance to operations in peace, crisis, and war that its incapacitation or destruction would have a very serious, debilitating effect on the ability of the DoD to fulfill its missions.  

  Identifying terrain has a direct impact on a CPT’s mission. 
  Once the CPT has an assigned terrain in which to hunt and operate, the threat hunter can filter through the terrain, based on the types of systems and data available. 
  Data requirements are tied to analytics that are then tied to Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures (TTP) used. Identifying terrain, in turn, reduces the number of analytics necessary for the team to execute. 
  The threat hunter can also filter through the terrain on the identified MRT-C and KT-C to prioritize the required data collection.

Terrain Analysis and Identification
  Terrain analysis is the collection, analysis, evaluation, and interpretation of geographic (physical) and digital (virtual) information on the natural and man-made features of the terrain — combined with other relevant factors — to predict the effect of the terrain on military operations.

Terrain Analysis and Site Survey  
  A site survey is the examination of a location in order to obtain data or information. 
  The information obtained during a site survey helps determine the mission terrain, gathers critical data, and defines the network owner’s needs. 
  Information that can be collected during a site survey includes access to the site and necessary equipment, network topology, OSs, and critical on-site personnel to assist with the operation (such as security and information technology personnel).

  The site survey allows for time to come to an agreement with the network owner and Operational Control (OPCON) chain in regards to tactical plan execution. 
  It is during this time that a team arrives, requests a work location, gains access to personnel/systems, and integrates its equipment and tools into the network.  

Defining an Operational Environment
  An OE is a composite of the conditions, circumstances, and influences that affect the employment of capabilities and bear on the decisions of the commander. 
  Components including the type of equipment, the size of the network, OSs, key personnel, and schedule of the location all play critical roles in decision making. 
  These components help to define the OE. 

Layers of Cyberspace
  When defining the OE, start with the three layers of cyberspace:
    Physical network 
    Logical network
    Cyber-Persona

Physical Network Layer  
  The physical network layer consists of the tactile Information Technology (IT) devices and infrastructure in the domains that provide storage, transport, and processing of information within cyberspace.
  The layer includes data repositories and the connections that transfer data between network components. 
  Physical network components include the hardware and infrastructure (e.g., computing devices, storage devices, network devices, and wired and wireless links). 
  These components require physical security measures to protect them from damage or unauthorized access, which may be leveraged to gain logical access. 

Logical Network Layer
  The logical network layer consists of all the data — whether resting, moving, or being used in the physical network layer. 
  The logical network layer is based on the programming or software that drives network communications, interactions, and connectivity. 
  Individual links and nodes are represented in the logical network layer along with various distributed elements of cyberspace including data, applications, and network processes not tied to a single node. 

Cyber-Persona Layer
  The cyber-persona layer is a view of cyberspace created by pulling artifacts and data from the logical network layer to describe actors and entities that utilize the network. 
  The cyber-persona layer consists of network or IT user accounts, whether human or automated, and their relationships to one another. 
  Cyber-personas may relate directly to an actual person or entity, incorporating some personal or organizational data (e.g., email and IP addresses, web pages, phone numbers, web forum logins, or financial account passwords).  
