The Assess Phase
   As per CWP 3.33-4, the goal of assessing is to conduct Cyber Threat Emulation (CTE). 
  CTE assesses the current security posture by emulating known adversary Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures (TTP) to validate the current defensive measures.

MOPs determine whether operational tasks were satisfied to create the desired effect.

MOEs determine whether the desired effect achieved operational objectives.

More concisely, MOPs track progress towards creating the desired effect, and MOEs evaluate if that desired effect achieved operational objectives. 
MOEs can be considered as bullets and MOPs can be considered sub-bullets.

While the CPT OP focuses on mission at an operational level, CPTs do not function at an operational level during day-to-day tasks. 
They do function at a tactical level however. 
When the Operational Control (OPCON) Headquarters (HQS) Operational Planning element provides operational level MOEs and MOPs, the CPT will use them by converting them into tactical level MOEs and MOPs. 
This involves turning operational level MOPs into tactical level MOEs, and developing new tactical MOPs that would correspond to the MOEs

Building a Timeline 
  During the assessment function, validate that the CPT accomplished their MOEs. 
  There are several documents to examine for this purpose. 
  Examining external reporting and observing the Operation Notes (OPNOTE) of other analysts are critical tasks at this stage.

Situational Reports (SITREP)
  SITREPs are routinely generated to provide updates to higher elements on a daily, weekly, per-phase, or on request.

Tactical Assessments: 
  Tactical assessments are low-level assessments that often contain their own MOEs and MOPs

OPNOTEs
  OPNOTEs are in-depth and technical about the events that occur during mission execution. 
  However, OPNOTEs contain very specific timestamps and events rather than a high-level summary. 
  When more detail than a high-level summary is needed, consult the OPNOTEs.

