OSI Layer 2 Devices
  Devices that operate on layer 2 of the OSI model, or the Data Link Layer in the TCP/IP protocol stack, perform switching operations on frames. 
  Each frame contains addressing associated with a hardware Network Interface Controller (NIC) (Destination Media Access Control [DMAC] address and Source Media Access Control [SMAC] address), an indicator of the next — or encapsulated — protocol, and the data being sent.

OSI Layer 3 Devices
  Devices that operate on layer 3 operate on packets. These packets are routed between networks.
  The vast majority of hosts on the internet still use Internet Protocol version 4 (IPv4) and have not yet migrated to the newer Internet Protocol version 6 (IPv6). 
  Recall from prerequisite training that IPv4 consists of 32-bit addresses and IPv6 consists of 128-bit addresses

Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP) 
  IP addresses can be assigned statically or requested dynamically from a centralized management server. 
  DHCP uses UDP over port 67 for DHCP servers and port 68 for clients. DHCP operations fall into four stages:

    DHCP server Discovery
    IP address lease Offer
    IP address lease Request
    IP address lease Acknowledgement

NAT/Port Address Translation (PAT) Review
  NAT and PAT allow networks to use a limited number of public IP addresses to isolate and translate between a private IP addressing space that is used internally and the public IP addresses needed to communicate with hosts on the internet.

  NAT is intended as a one-for-one private-to-public address translation (e.g., 192.168.0.1 would always be translated to 200.200.200.1). 

  PAT uses a combination of inside IP address and inside source port to build the translation table.
  Most devices performing NAT/PAT do not differentiate between the two, unless a specific one-to-one static translation is configured. 
  PAT allows many inside hosts to share the same global address. 

Virtual Local Area Network (VLAN)
  Multiple traditional networks can exist on a single switch, which reduces the number of devices an administrative group has to manage and purchase. 
  Switches can perform VLAN switching at a higher speed than a router since they do not have to read as much of the frame/packet in order to make a decision about where to send the data. 
  A common use for VLANs is to segregate the management protocols that network devices use for dynamic switching and routing updates from the rest of the user data that traverses a network.
  
  standard 802.1Q

