CWP and CPT Threat Hunting
  Where traditional cybersecurity is passive or reactive, CPT hunt operations take the fight to the enemy by proactively searching out, identifying, disrupting, and defeating threats resident in networks and systems. (2.a.1)
  Knowledge of adversary presence is not a prerequisite for the conduct of CPT hunt operations. (2.a.4)
  Hunting is an operation to find, fix, and track MCA, and is often driven by data analysis, threat identification, or other anomalous activity. 
  CPTs, in contrast to local defenders, focus on those threat subsets with Tactic, Technique and Procedure (TTP)-specific capability, perceived intent, and opportunity to bypass security layers emplaced by Cybersecurity Service Providers (CSSP) and local network defenders. 
  CPT hunt operations are predicated on the assumption [that] threats already reside within networks. (2.a.5)
  The absence of security alerts does not indicate an absence of threats, and may instead indicate security mechanisms did not detect a threat or intrusion. 
  ... Passive incident detection and threat hunting operations can, and should, be conducted simultaneously. (2.a.7)
  CPT hunt operations focus on narrowing MCA tactics to characterize the threat, and determine the threat's technical capability. (2.a.6)
  Successful hunt operations may require the CPT to establish a deliberate defense posture to further develop and coordinate detailed plans based on the adversary or MCA. (2.a.8)

Tactical Planning for Hunt Operations
  A CPT that has completed the planning phases of the CPT OP is ready to begin the Tactical Planning and Mission Execution of the hunt operation. 
  At this point, a CPT should understand the goals of their mission, the environment/network they are operating within, the individuals and groups that they need to communicate with during the operation, and any limitations, ROEs, 
  or contingencies that exist or need to be planned for.

Identifying and Collecting Data for Hunting
  During the creation of the tactical plan, a CPT identifies the key tasks that need to be performed in order to meet the goals of the operation as determined by the network/system owner.
  For hunting operations, these key tasks include high-level hunt topics that can be further broken down into individual hunts. 
  For each hunt, a CPT must identify relevant data that exists within the environment, and develop a plan for acquiring access to this data or otherwise collecting it for themselves, if allowed.

Host Logs
  A process was started or stopped
  A network connection was attempted
  A user logged in to or logged out of the machine
  A new device was plugged into the machine

Network Logs
  Network logs are generated by applications or devices that handle network connections in some fashion, and contain information about a connection such as its source, destination, associated ports, and amount of data being transferred. 

Security Appliance Logs
  Security appliance logs are logs generated by a security appliance, an antivirus log indicating that potential malware was identified and removed, or an IDS identifying network traffic containing potential attack patterns.

Application Logs
  This broad category of logs simply means any logs generated by an individual application.

Hunt Technique: Baselining
  The success of this indicator relies on a hunting technique called baselining. Put simply, baselining is a comparison of the current state of a network against some known-good state. 
  This known-good state might be simple intuition that an analyst has built from their past experience, or it might be based on actual data that was collected from the network.

