Policies, Procedures, and Regulations
  Title 10 outlines the role of the armed forces and military operations.
  Title 50 of the United States Code outlines the role of war and national defense. 
  Title 50 governs many different activities in support of national defense, however in regard to CPT operations it provides guidance as to the manner in which intelligence gathering efforts may be carried out. 
  Title 32 outlines the role of reserve force military operations.

Step 1: Objectives, Effects, and Guidance
  Threat Intelligence
  Campaign Plan
  Detect Malicious Cyberspace Activity (MCA)

Step 2: Terrain Identification and Prioritization
  Terrain Identification and Prioritization defines mission scope as it pertains to initial objectives, intended effects, and commander guidance. 
  Analysis of the supported organization’s mission and resources during Mission Analysis (MA) will result in validation and assessment of Mission Relevant Terrain in Cyberspace (MRT-C), and assessment of the local network or system security. 
  MRT-C assessments are based on, and conducted in conjunction with, the mission owner’s detailed understanding of their network terrain.

Mission Analysis
  The CPT plays an important role in the MA process. During MA, the CPT conducts a technical survey, a site survey, terrain mapping and analysis, and adversary analysis.

Step 3: Capability Analysis and Force Allocation
  The CPT coordinates with the Operational Planning section and supports the commander’s staff to coordinate mission rules of engagement (ROE) informed by the initial capabilities analysis.

Force Availability, Selection, Preparation
  Once CPT MA is completed, available CPT forces are examined to determine CPT mission accomplishment capability. 
  The scope of the proposed mission and other on-going CPT requirements factor into mission element and crew selection. 
  Specifically, CPT leadership examines the team members’ experience, proficiency, and training levels, as well as administrative readiness status against the number of personnel required to complete the mission as determined during CPT MA. 

Step 4: Orders Production and Dissemination
  During the Orders Production and Dissemination, the operational-level orders production team receives the final outputs from the capability analysis and force allocation. 
  Outputs are developed into a formal operations order or TASKORD (or service specific mission type order). 
  The Operational Control (OPCON) headquarters’ Operational Planning section maintains the responsibility to develop and publish orders (including coordinating or special instructions, or similar guidance) to direct and guide CPT operations. 
  Once produced, the final order and special instructions are published and disseminated to the CPT for action; to the supported commander

Step 5: Tactical Planning and Mission Execution
  Tactical Planning and Mission Execution is largely the responsibility of and conducted by the CPT. 
  Depending on operational-level requirements and internal CPT process, the CPT may generate a Tactical Mission Plan document. 
  This document takes the form of an informational briefing or report for CPT operators or the mission partner. 
  This tactical plan may be shared with the Operational Planning section.

The CPT tactical mission plan normally:
  Articulates tactical objectives and tasks
  Pairs capabilities to tactical tasks
  Finalizes sensor placement schemes
  Establishes a data collection and sensor management plan
  Establishes (tactical) mission phases
  Develops contingencies
  Develop tactical assessments
  Establishes contracts
  Establishes the communications plan.

During this step, the supported commander and local network protection personnel provide the CPT access to their terrain in cyberspace. 
The OP section must verify CPT access to the supported organization’s protected network(s) or system(s) directed (or required) in the PLANORD or TASKORD published in the Objectives, Effects, and Guidance step, 
and the order published in the Orders Production and Dissemination step.

Mission Execution Outputs
  Upon completion of a mission phase, or at mission conclusion, the CPT conducts assessment of tactical objectives and tasks. 
  Tactical Measures of Effectiveness (MOE) and Measures of Performance (MOP), as well as collected data requested by the operational-level collection plan, 
  are submitted to the OP section in preparation for the next phase, or to enable operational assessments by the OP section.

If tasked, the CPT develops a Risk Mitigation Plan (RMP) following mission execution and submits it to the OP section. The RMP is also furnished to the supported commander at mission conclusion.

Step 6: Assessment
  The final step of the OP is Assessment. 
  During this step, the OP section assessment team analyzes MOPs to determine whether operational tasks were satisfied to create desired effects, and analyzes MOEs to determine whether creation of desired effects achieved operational objectives. 
  The OP section assessment team reviews data and information reported by the CPT in accordance with the operational assessment plan.



