accesschk "Domain\user" -a *

auditpol.exe /get /category:*

GPM -> Name of GPO --> enforced

LSP -> Local

RSOP.msc -> using RSOP


Directory services = Domain Services

A directory is a hierarchical structure that stores information about objects on the network. 
A directory service, such as AD DS, provides the methods for storing directory data and making
this data available to network users and administrators.


KEY TERMS:
  
  Schema: The set of user-configured rules that govern objects and attributes in AD DS.
  
  Global Catalog: The container for all objects in AD DS. For example, a name associated with a user or a computer is stored in the global catalog.
  
  Query and Index Mechanism: This system allows users to find each other in AD. A good example would be when typing a name in the mail client, and the mail client shows possible matches.
  
  Replication Service: The replication service makes sure that every DC on the network has the same Global Catalog and Schema.
  
  Sites: Sites are representations of the network topology, so AD DS knows which objects go together to optimize replication and indexing.

  Lightweight Directory Access Protocol (LDAP): LDAP is an industry-standard application protocol that allows AD to communicate with other LDAP-enabled directory services across platforms. 
                                                Example of its use includes creating a centralized management of AD users for validating access to various applications and services.


Also note that the logs required to perform an investigation, may not be configured or accessible in a default environment.


GPO
 GPO is a collection of Group Policy settings that define what a system looks like and how it behaves for a defined group of users. Every GPO has two parts: a user configuration and a computer configuration.

  Computer-related policies specify system behavior, application settings, security settings, assigned applications, and computer startup and shutdown scripts.

  User-related policies specify system behavior, application settings, security settings, assigned and published applications, user logon and logoff scripts, and folder redirection.

    Objects can span the entire enterprise made up of Organizational Units (OU), domains, trees, and forests. 
    OUs can be linked directly to GPOs making enterprise management simpler. An OU is the lowest unit that GPOs 
    can be applied to and is a subdivision within an AD that can hold users, groups, and computers.

